# Django REST Framework Starter Kit 

This is a starter template for Django REST Framework (DRF) projects, designed to provide a solid foundation with essential features commonly needed in API development.

## Features

- **Token-Based Authentication**: Secure your API endpoints using token-based authentication.
- **Swagger API Documentation**: Automatically generate interactive API documentation using Swagger UI.
- **User Management System**: Implement user registration, login, logout, and password reset functionalities.
- **Permissions and Roles**: Define user roles and permissions to control access to API endpoints.
- **Email Notifications**: Set up email notifications for user-related events like registration and password reset.
- **Rate Limiting**: Prevent abuse of API endpoints by implementing rate limiting.
- **File Uploads**: Support file uploads (e.g., images, documents) with customizable storage backends.
- **Caching**: Improve API performance with caching for frequently accessed data.
- **Background Tasks**: Perform background tasks asynchronously using Celery and a message broker.
- **Monitoring and Logging**: Monitor application performance and track errors with logging and monitoring tools.

## Usage

1. Clone this repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/hossainchisty/django-rest-starter-kit.git
    ```

2. Install dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Customize settings:

    - Configure database settings in `settings.py`.
    - Set up email configuration for sending notifications.
    - Configure token authentication settings.
    - Customize permissions and roles according to your application's requirements.

4. Migrate the database:

    ```bash
    python manage.py migrate
    ```

5. Run the development server:

    ```bash
    python manage.py runserver
    ```

6. Access the API documentation:

    Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8000/swagger/` to view the interactive API documentation generated by Swagger UI.

7. Start building your API endpoints:

    - Define your API endpoints in `urls.py`.
    - Implement views and serializers for your API resources in `views.py` and `serializers.py` respectively.
    - Secure your endpoints using token authentication and define permissions as needed.

## Testing

Run unit tests and integration tests to ensure the reliability and stability of your API:

```bash
python manage.py test
```

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or new features, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 license - see the LICENSE file for details.
